README.md, before:

# Circular Sliders for Rails

A Ruby on Rails gem which allows you to draw concentric responsive circular sliders with jQuery. Requires jQuery.

![Circular sliders](../assets/circular-sliders-rails.gif?raw=true)

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'circular-sliders-rails'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install circular-sliders-rails

## Usage

Include in your application.js file:

    //= require circular-sliders

Create a canvas element in the view where you would like the sliders to go:

    <canvas id="sliders" width="1200" height="300" style="border:1px solid;"></canvas>

Use jQuery to add circular sliders to the canvas area. Pass slider settings as objects in an array. Create multiple sliders or just a single slider. With the settings below you should see something like the picture above.

    <script>
      $('#sliders').sliders([
        {
          name: "Age",
          centerX: 175,
          minValue: 18,
          maxValue: 66,
          step: 1,
          units: "years",
          color: "#FF7F50",
          textColor: "#FF7F50"
        },
        {
          name: "Daily activity",
          units: "miles",
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 25,
          step: 1,
          color: "#FF7F50",
          textColor: "#FF7F50"
        },
        {
          name: "Height",
          color: "#FFDEAD",
          type: "Height",
          centerX: 375,
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 250,
          step: 2,
          units: "cm",
          radius: 100
        },
        {
          name: "Weight",
          color: "#A52A2A",
          type: "Weight",
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 150,
          radius: 100,
          centerX: 600,
          step: 5,
          units: "kg",
          lineWidth: 10,
          gradientFill: false
        },
        {
          name: "Waist size",
          color: "#A0522D",
          type: "Waist",
          centerX: 825,
          radius: 100,
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 50,
          lineWidth: 10,
          step: 2,
          units: "cm",
          ballColor: "#A0522D"
        },
        {
          name: "Shoe size",
          type: "Shoe",
          centerX: 1050,
          radius: 100,
          lineWidth: 10,
          minValue: 10,
          maxValue: 60,
          step: 1,
          textColor: "#0000FF"
        },
        {
          name: "Desired price",
          priceUnits: "£",
          textColor: "#0000FF",
          step: 5
        }
      ]);
    </script>

Slider settings:

| Name            | Type    | Default                             | Description                                            |
| --------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| name            | String  | Slider n                            | Name your slider                                       |
| type            | String  | Plain                               | Pick between various types for interesting graphics at the center of the slider: 'Height', 'Weight', 'Shoe', 'Waist', and more to come |
| centerX         | Float   | Center of canvas or previous slider | Specify the x value for the center of the slider       |
| centerY         | Float   | Center of canvas or previous slider | Specify the y value for the center of the slider       |
| color           | String  | "#0000FF"                           | Specify the color of the arc fill                      |
| minValue        | Float   | 0                                   | The minimum value of your slider                       |
| maxValue        | Float   | 100                                 | The maximum value of your slider                       |
| step            | Float   | 10                                  | The amount the value is incremented                    |
| units           | String  | ""                                  | The units your value is displayed in                   |
| priceUnits      | String  | ""                                  | Adds price ('$', '€', '£' ...) before value            |
| radius          | Float   | 40 or (previous slider radius + previous slider lineWidth + 5)  | The radius of your slider  |
| lineWidth       | Float   | 5                                   | The slider and arc width                               |
| strokeColor     | String  | "#D3D3D3"                           | The color of the dashes on the slider                  |
| ballColor       | String  | "#000000"                           | The color of the slider ball                           |
| textColor       | String  | "#000000"                           | The color of the slider label (name, value and units)  |
| gradientFill    | Boolean | true                                | Specify whether you would like the image in the center (for specified type) of the slider to fill with the slider's color as you scale the slider |

Retrieve values of individual sliders by calling:

    $('#sliders').data('slider_name');

<!-- ## Development -->

<!-- To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org). -->


## Contributing

  1. Fork it
  1. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
  1. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
  1. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
  1. Create new Pull Request

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/speterlin/circular-sliders-rails. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add new 'legend' property, update default 'radius' property, refactoring. README.md: Add new option 'legend' to settings table. Update Default column of 'radius' option in settings table to read '+ default lineWidth' (used to be '+ 5'). circular-sliders.js: Add 'use strict' to top of jQuery function declaration, better to have this for code quality. Refactor comments (make more logical, remove unnecessary/self-explanatory). Move defaults variable out of $.fn.sliders to join other private global variables, add new line in $.fn.sliders to define defaults.centerX&centerY since need canvas area. Make defaults.radius add default slider lineWidth (used to add 5). Add legend property for Slider object. Add check for legend property before drawText() in draw().

README.md, after:

# Circular Sliders for Rails

A Ruby on Rails gem which allows you to draw concentric responsive circular sliders with jQuery. Requires jQuery.

![Circular sliders](../assets/circular-sliders-rails.gif?raw=true)

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'circular-sliders-rails'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install circular-sliders-rails

## Usage

Include in your application.js file:

    //= require circular-sliders

Create a canvas element in the view where you would like the sliders to go:

    <canvas id="sliders" width="1200" height="300" style="border:1px solid;"></canvas>

Use jQuery to add circular sliders to the canvas area. Pass slider settings as objects in an array. Create multiple sliders or just a single slider. With the settings below you should see something like the picture above.

    <script>
      $('#sliders').sliders([
        {
          name: "Age",
          centerX: 175,
          minValue: 18,
          maxValue: 66,
          step: 1,
          units: "years",
          color: "#FF7F50",
          textColor: "#FF7F50"
        },
        {
          name: "Daily activity",
          units: "miles",
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 25,
          step: 1,
          color: "#FF7F50",
          textColor: "#FF7F50"
        },
        {
          name: "Height",
          color: "#FFDEAD",
          type: "Height",
          centerX: 375,
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 250,
          step: 2,
          units: "cm",
          radius: 100
        },
        {
          name: "Weight",
          color: "#A52A2A",
          type: "Weight",
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 150,
          radius: 100,
          centerX: 600,
          step: 5,
          units: "kg",
          lineWidth: 10,
          gradientFill: false
        },
        {
          name: "Waist size",
          color: "#A0522D",
          type: "Waist",
          centerX: 825,
          radius: 100,
          minValue: 0,
          maxValue: 50,
          lineWidth: 10,
          step: 2,
          units: "cm",
          ballColor: "#A0522D"
        },
        {
          name: "Shoe size",
          type: "Shoe",
          centerX: 1050,
          radius: 100,
          lineWidth: 10,
          minValue: 10,
          maxValue: 60,
          step: 1,
          textColor: "#0000FF"
        },
        {
          name: "Desired price",
          priceUnits: "£",
          textColor: "#0000FF",
          step: 5
        }
      ]);
    </script>

Slider settings:

| Name            | Type    | Default                             | Description                                            |
| --------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| name            | String  | Slider n                            | Name your slider                                       |
| type            | String  | Plain                               | Pick between various types for interesting graphics at the center of the slider: 'Height', 'Weight', 'Shoe', 'Waist', and more to come |
| centerX         | Float   | Center of canvas or previous slider | Specify the x value for the center of the slider       |
| centerY         | Float   | Center of canvas or previous slider | Specify the y value for the center of the slider       |
| color           | String  | "#0000FF"                           | Specify the color of the arc fill                      |
| minValue        | Float   | 0                                   | The minimum value of your slider                       |
| maxValue        | Float   | 100                                 | The maximum value of your slider                       |
| step            | Float   | 10                                  | The amount the value is incremented                    |
| units           | String  | ""                                  | The units your value is displayed in                   |
| priceUnits      | String  | ""                                  | Adds price ('$', '€', '£' ...) before value            |
| radius          | Float   | 40 or (previous slider radius + previous slider lineWidth + default slider lineWidth)  | The radius of your slider  |
| lineWidth       | Float   | 5                                   | The slider and arc width                               |
| strokeColor     | String  | "#D3D3D3"                           | The color of the dashes on the slider                  |
| ballColor       | String  | "#000000"                           | The color of the slider ball                           |
| textColor       | String  | "#000000"                           | The color of the slider label (name, value and units)  |
| gradientFill    | Boolean | true                                | Specify whether you would like the image in the center (for specified type) of the slider to fill with the slider's color as you scale the slider |
| legend          | Boolean | true                                | Specify whether you would like the slider name and value listed in the top left corner of the canvas |

Retrieve values of individual sliders by calling:

    $('#sliders').data('slider_name');

<!-- ## Development -->

<!-- To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org). -->


## Contributing

  1. Fork it
  1. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
  1. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
  1. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
  1. Create new Pull Request

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/speterlin/circular-sliders-rails. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
